.TH CRUSHR 1 "February 2026" "crushr 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
crushr \- pack, inspect, and extract .crs archives (zstd frame blocks + index)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B crushr
.RI [ options ] " <command> " [ args ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B crushr
creates and reads a simple seekable archive format (\fI.crs\fR) intended for
fast random reads, robust verification, and good compression (zstd + optional
trained dictionary).
.PP
The format is optimized for "archive once, read many" workflows and for being
embeddable as a single-file dependency.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B pack
Create an archive from one or more input paths.
.TP
.B list
List entries in an archive (paths, sizes, metadata).
.TP
.B extract
Extract files from an archive.
.TP
.B cat
Write one archived file to stdout.
.TP
.B verify
Verify archive integrity (footer/index hashes; optional deep block verification).
.TP
.B info
Show a summary of archive statistics (sizes, ratios, block/dict details).
.TP
.B tune
Run autotune to recommend zstd parameters for a given input tree.
.TP
.B train-dict
Train a zstd dictionary and write it to a file.
.SH PACK OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " <FILE>"
Write archive to FILE.
.TP
.BR \-\-base " <DIR>"
Base directory used to compute stored relative paths. If omitted,
crushr computes a common base from the inputs.
.TP
.BR \-\-level " <N>"
zstd compression level.
.TP
.BR \-\-block\-mib " <MiB>"
Target uncompressed block size.
.TP
.BR \-\-dict " <FILE>"
Use a pre-trained zstd dictionary file.
.TP
.BR \-\-auto\-dict
Train a dictionary from the input tree and embed it into the archive.
.TP
.BR \-\-auto
Autotune + auto-dict with a time budget. See also \fB\-\-auto\-tune\-ms\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-xattrs " <POLICY>"
Extended attribute policy: \fBoff\fR, \fBbasic\fR, \fBall\fR.
.SH UI
.BR \-\-ui " <N>"
Select output UI. \fB1\fR is simple, \fB2\fR is multi-progress (live),
\fB3\fR is experimental.
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 on success; non-zero on error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR crushr-format (5)
